Now that we've
introduced the idea
of parameterizing
policies directly,
we're ready to talk
about how we can
learn to improve
a parameterized policy.
Just like with action
value-based methods,
the basic idea will be
to specify an objective,
and then figure out how to
estimate the gradient of
that objective from
an agent's experience.
After watching this video,
you'll be able to
describe the objective
for policy gradient algorithms.
Formulating an objective
for learning
a parameterized policy is in
some sense more straightforward
than it was for action
value-based methods.
We've said many times that
the ultimate goal of
reinforcement learning is to
learn a policy that obtains
as much reward as
possible in the long run.
It turns out that when we
parameterize our policy directly,
we can also use this goal
directly as the
learning objective.
Throughout this specialization,
we've introduced
a few different interpretations
of what it means to obtain
as much reward as
possible in the long-run.
For the episodic case,
we can use the
undiscounted return,
which is the sum of rewards
over a whole episode.
For the continuing case,
we introduced the discounted
return which places
more emphasis on immediate reward
in order to keep the sum finite.
Most recently,
we introduced the average
reward formulation.
Here, we maximize the long-term
average of the reward.
The appropriate return
here is the sum of
the differences between
the immediate reward
and its average.
Because the long-term
averages subtracted,
this sum is finite even
without discounting.
Here we have three potential
problem formulations to consider.
We're going to restrict
our attention to
the continuing setting
with average reward.
Remember what our aim is here,
to find a way to directly
optimize the parameters
of a policy.
The first step is to write
the average reward objective
in a form that we can optimize.
Previously, we estimated
the average reward to learn
action values in an average
reward variant of sarsa.
Now, our aim is to learn a policy
that directly optimizes
average reward.
Toward this aim, let's
start by writing
the average reward under
a policy in a more useful form.
We can write the average
reward achieved by
a particular
policy Pi, like this.
Let's break this formula
down starting
from the inner sum
and moving out.
This inner sum gives
the expected reward if we
start in state S
and take action A.
This is simply the sum
over all rewards we might
receive weighted by
their probability from S and A.
We sum over next
states S prime to get
marginal probabilities
over the reward.
The next level of
the summation is over
all possible actions weighted
by their probability under Pi.
This gives us the expected reward
under the policy Pi from
a particular state S. Finally,
we get the overall average reward
by considering the fraction
of time we spend in
state S under policy Pi.
The distribution Mu provides
these probabilities.
The expected reward across
states is a sum over
S of the expected reward in
a state weighted by Mu of S,
r Pi is our average reward
learning objective.
Our goal of policy
optimization will be to find
a policy which maximizes
the average reward.
Our basic approach will be to
estimate the gradient
of the objective with
respect to the policy parameters
and adjust the parameters
based on this estimate.
The class of methods
they use this idea are
often referred to as
policy gradient methods.
Up until now, we've used
a very different approach.
We use the Generalized
Policy Iteration framework
to learn approximate
action values.
Then we use these
approximate values
indirectly to infer
a good policy.
Now, we're interested in
learning policies directly.
There's also a
superficial difference,
in that before we were
minimizing the mean
squared value error,
and now we are
maximizing an objective.
That means we will want to
move in the direction of
the gradient rather than
the negative gradient.
There are few challenges in
computing this gradient however,
the main difficulty
is that modifying
our policy changes
the distribution Mu.
This contrast value function
approximation where we minimized
means grid value error
under a particular policy.
There the distribution
Mu was fixed.
It does not change
as the weights and
the parameterized
value function chains.
We were therefore able to
estimate gradients for states
drawn from Mu by simply
following the policy.
This is less straightforward,
a Mu itself depends on
the policy we are optimizing.
Likely, there's an excellent
theoretical answer
to this challenge called
the policy gradient theorem.
We'll talk more about that soon.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand
that we can use
the average reward as
an objective for
policy optimization.
In upcoming lectures, we
will discuss how to actually
optimize this objective from
sampled experience. See you then.